---
title: Query statements - Azure Data Explorer | Microsoft Docs
description: This article describes Query statements in Azure Data Explorer.
services: data-explorer
author: orspod
ms.author: orspodek
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.service: data-explorer
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 12/10/2019
zone_pivot_group_filename: data-explorer/zone-pivot-groups.json
zone_pivot_groups: kql-flavors
---
# Query statement types

::: zone pivot="azuredataexplorer"

A query consists of one or more **query statements**, delimited by a semicolon (`;`).
At least one of these query statements must be a [tabular expression statement](./tabularexpressionstatements.md).
The tabular expression statement generates one or more tabular results.
When the query has more than one tabular expression statement, the
query has a [batch](./batches.md) of tabular expression statements, and the tabular
results generated by these statements are all returned by the query.

Two types of query statements:

* Statements that are primarily used by users ([user query statements](#user-query-statements)),
* Statements that have been designed to support scenarios in which mid-tier applications take user queries and send a modified version of them to Kusto ([application query statements](#application-query-statements)).

Some query statements are useful in both scenarios.

> [!NOTE]
> The "effect" of a query statement starts at the point where the statement
> appears in the query and ends at the end of the query. Once the query completes,
> all its resources are released and it has no impact on future queries (other than
> side-effects, such as having the query recorded in a log of all queries run,
> or having its results cached.)

## User query statements

Following is a list of user query statements:

* A [let statement](./letstatement.md) defines a binding between a name and an expression.
  Let statements can be used to break a long query into small named parts that are easier to
  understand.

* A [set statement](./setstatement.md) sets a query option that affects how the query
  is processed and its results returned.

* A [tabular expression statement](./tabularexpressionstatements.md), the most important
  query statement, returns the "interesting" data back as results.

## Application query statements

Following is a list of application query statements:

* An [alias statement](./aliasstatement.md) defines an alias to another database
  (in the same cluster or on a remote cluster).

* A [pattern statement](./patternstatement.md), which can be used by applications that are
  built on top of Kusto and expose the query language to their users to inject themselves
  into the query name resolution process.

* A [query parameters statement](./queryparametersstatement.md), which is used by applications
  that are built on top of Kusto to protect themselves against injection attacks (similar to
  how command parameters protect SQL against SQL injection attacks.)

* A [restrict statement](./restrictstatement.md), which is used by applications that are built
  on top of Kusto to restrict queries to a specific subset of data in Kusto (including restricting
  access to specific columns and records.)

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="azuremonitor"

This capability isn't supported in Azure Monitor

::: zone-end
